      MS. SAWYER:  We'll go back on the record.  
It's 6:30. 
                    EXAMINATION
      Ms. Sawyer: We appreciate your time today, your 
patience in answering our questions.  
      You've been asked a number of questions just 
about -- well, strike that.  
      Were any of the particular factual findings 
or conclusions that you reached with regard to the 
research that was being done related to Russian 
interference in the 2016 election including 
possible ties to the Trump campaign, were any of 
the factual findings or conclusions influenced in 
any way by the identity of the client for whom you 
were doing that work?
      Mr. Simpson: All the questions you've asked I guess 
this one I've not given a lot of thought to.  
Offhand, not that I can think of.  
      Ms. Sawyer: So you weren't trying to reach a 
particular conclusion based on the identity had 
they asked you to find -- well, strike that.  
      I think what I'm trying to get some sense of 
comfort around is to the extent there might be 
concerns that the work being done was driven in a 
direction designed to reach a particular conclusion 
for a client or because of the client's identity 
was that the case?
      Mr. Simpson: I think it's safe to say that, you know, 
at some point probably early in 2016 I had reached 
a conclusion about Donald Trump as a businessman 
and his character and I was opposed to Donald 
Trump.  I'm not going to pretend that that wouldn't 
have entered into my thinking.  You know, again, I 
was a journalist my whole life.  So we were, you 
know, trained not to take sides and practiced in 
not taking sides.  
      So most of what I do as a research person is 
we try to avoid getting into situations where one's 
etiology or political views would cloud your work 
because it's a known hazard, but, you know, I 
reached an opinion about Donald Trump and his 
suitability to be president of the United States 
and I was concerned about whether he was the best 
person for the job.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And given that you had been trained not to 
allow etiology to cloud your work, it sounds like 
you reached a conclusion and had concerns about 
Candidate Trump.  What steps did you take to then 
ensure that your conclusion didn't cloud the work 
that was being done?
      Mr. Simpson: Well, to be clear, my concerns were in the 
category of character and competence rather than -- 
I didn't have any specific concerns for much of the 
time about his views, which I don't share, but that 
wasn't really the issue.  Most of what we do has to 
do with do people have integrity and whether 
they've been involved in illicit activity.  So 
those were the things I focused on.  
      Ms. Sawyer: So the conclusion that you reached, was it 
informed by the research that you were -- your 
personal conclusion, was it informed by the 
research that you were conducting?
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.  We deal in factual information and 
over the course of this project we gathered lots of 
facts about Donald Trump.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You mentioned that earlier and I think you 
made clear a number of times in the course of the 
day that the specific work on Russian interference 
and possible ties to the campaign that Mr. Steele 
was doing was one part of that bigger picture, and 
I did want to ask you about some of that bigger 
picture of the work and get a sense from you, if I 
could, you know, some of the background and 
findings.  In particular one of the things you had 
mentioned -- well, you just mentioned right now as 
we were speaking the term "illicit activity."  
What, if any, research did you conduct that gave 
you any concerns about then Candidate Trump and 
potential illicit activity?
      Mr. Simpson: I think the thing I cited to you was his 
relationship with organized crime figures, and that 
was a concern.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And what can you share with us about the 
findings, your findings?
      Mr. Simpson: Well, I've tried to share as much as I 
could think of over the course of today.  Mr. Simpson: I say, 
there were various allegations of fraudulent 
business practices or dishonest business practices 
or connections with organized crime figures.  In 
fact, you know, there was numerous others that I 
can't remember the names of.  It was a long history 
of associations with people accused of involvement 
in criminal activity.  
      You know, just to reiterate, the facts of 
these investigations are the facts and we don't try 
to drive an investigation to any particular 
conclusion, certainly not based on our political 
views.  So I think it would be, you know, not 
believable for me to tell you I didn't reach, you 
know, views about Donald Trump's integrity, but, 
you know, those were -- those didn't influence the 
research in terms of the findings.  Those were the 
findings.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You mentioned specifically and I think 
with regard to organized crime particularly ties to 
Felix Sater is one.  You indicated a connection to 
Yudkovich Mogilebich, I think it is.
      Mr. Simpson: Mogilebich.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Mogilebich, which we can spell for you.  
Tell me if I have this correct.  
M-O-G-I-L-E-B-I-C-H. 
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.
      THE REPORTER:  What's the first name?
      MR. SIMPSON:  Semyon, S-E-M-Y-O-N.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Yudkovich, did I get that --
      Mr. Simpson: I believe I was probably talking fast and 
I think I might have made a reference to 
Yanukovych, which is the former president of the 
Ukraine.  
      Ms. Sawyer: With regard to any of that work, did you 
create work product based on that work?
      Mr. Simpson: I don't specifically recall what we would 
have created.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And with regard to that work, did you 
share any of that information with law enforcement 
agencies?
      Mr. Simpson: No.  I mean, just to reiterate, the only 
contact that, you know, occurred during this 
engagement was -- at least to my knowledge, was 
Chris's dealing with the FBI.  Other than that, I 
don't remember having any dealings with the FBI.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You had also mentioned earlier in the day 
work -- that there was an investigation about money 
from Kazakhstan?
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And could you tell me about that and what 
you investigated and what you learned.
      Mr. Simpson: There was some parallel litigation in 
New York involving attempts by the government of 
Kazakhstan to recover money that had been allegedly 
stolen from Kazakhstan, billions of dollars in a 
colossal bank failure.  The name of the bank was 
BTA Bank.  It's been well established in various 
courts that the government's allegations are 
basically true, which is that large amounts of 
money were illicitly removed from this bank, 
laundered across Europe and into the United States 
apparently.  Allegedly.  
      So there was a civil case, at least one civil 
case in New York involving -- filed by the city of 
Almaty, A-L-M-A-T-Y, against some alleged Kazakh 
money launderers.  I don't remember exactly how, 
but we learned that -- it wasn't from Chris.  We 
learned that Felix Sater had some connections with 
these people, and it's been more recently in the 
media that he's helping the government of 
Kazakhstan to recover this money.  There's been 
media reports that the money went into the Trump 
Soho or it went into the company that built the 
Trump Soho.  I can't remember the name.  
      Ms. Sawyer: So the connection in that instance was to 
Felix Sater and through Felix Sater to -- 
potentially to Donald Trump?
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.  It was a company that Felix Sater 
and Donald Trump were involved in together.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And the research you did on that project, 
was that public source research?  Did you have any 
other -- did you have human intelligence sources on 
that project?
      Mr. Simpson: I think I probably did have some human 
sources.  That's my answer.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And did you use subcontractors at all on 
that work?
      Mr. Simpson: I can't say specifically whether it was -- 
I remember commissioning some public record-type 
research on Felix Sater and his history in 
New York.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Did you feel in the course of that that 
you had uncovered evidence of any criminal activity 
by Donald Trump?
      Mr. Simpson: In the course of that I don't think so.  I 
think my concern was the associations with known 
organized crime figures.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And that included Felix Sater?
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Anyone else in particular?
      Mr. Simpson: There were others.  
      MR. LEVY:  Beyond what we've discussed today?  
      MS. SAWYER:  Yes, beyond what we've already 
discussed.
      Mr. Simpson: Another figure involved in the Trump Soho 
project was a central Asian person named Arif, 
A-R-I-F, is the last name.  The first name is 
generally spelled Tevfik, it's T-E-V-F-I-K.  If you 
search under a different transiteration of that 
name you can find open source reporting alleging 
that he's an organized crime figure from Central 
Asia and he had an arrest for involvement in child 
prostitution.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You mentioned as well that you had 
reviewed tax bills.  Were these specifically Donald 
Trump's tax bills?
      Mr. Simpson: They were Trump properties and I believe 
we may have reviewed some public information about 
estate taxes and things like that.  We didn't have 
access to his tax returns.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Did you reach any conclusions based on 
your review of his tax bills?  I think you 
mentioned that in connection with trying to assess 
either financial connections or his financial 
standing.  Did you reach any conclusions with 
regard to either of those?
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.  I concluded -- we concluded that his 
statements about what individual properties were 
worth were greatly exaggerated and at odds with the 
information that he'd supplied, you know, in legal 
filings with tax authorities and other records, 
corporate records.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Did any of that indicate anything that 
showed a connection to Russia or the Russian 
government or Russian officials or Russian 
oligarchs?
      Mr. Simpson: Not that I can recall.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You mentioned as well, you brought up 
Trump golf courses.  What in particular were you 
looking into with regard to Donald Trump's golf 
courses?
      Mr. Simpson: The original inquiry was into the value of 
the courses, whether he had to borrow money to buy 
them, whether they were encumbered with debt, how 
much money they brought in, what valuations he put 
on them, and property tax filings.
      Ms. Sawyer: And in general can you share what findings 
and conclusions you reached?  
      MR. LEVY:  With regard to?  
      MS. SAWYER:  To the work on the golf 
properties.
      Mr. Simpson: A number of them don't make any money.  
His valuations of the properties are questionable.  
I guess those would be the main findings.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You just mentioned broadly but didn't 
describe it, you mentioned research on Scotland.  I 
don't know if it was particular properties or 
something with regard to Scotland.  Can you just 
describe what that research was.
      Mr. Simpson: Sure.  He has golf courses in Scotland and 
Ireland and one of the facets of UK or anglo 
company law is that private companies have to file 
financial statements, public financial statements.  
So when you're looking at a guy like Donald Trump 
who doesn't like to share information about his 
company, it's useful to find a jurisdiction where 
he's required to share that information with the 
local government.  
      So we went and ordered the records -- the 
financial statements of the golf courses.  There's 
also a long-running land use controversy -- I think 
there's multiple long-running land use 
controversies over those properties.  We haven't 
really touched on this at all, but there were also 
environmental issues that were part of the 
research.  
      Ms. Sawyer: With regard to the public financial 
statements, did you reach any conclusions based on 
that?
      Mr. Simpson: That they were not profitable entities.  I 
don't specifically recall.  I just remember that 
these were not doing very well and that he'd sunk a 
lot of money into them and he hadn't gotten a lot 
of money back yet.  
      MS. QUINT:  You mentioned a couple of times, 
Mr. Simpson, that you had particular familiarity 
with Mr. Manafort and even that you were more 
familiar with him in particular than Chris Steele 
was.  In general and it might not be easy to be 
general about it, but what was your focus when you 
had looked into Manafort?  What main areas were you 
familiar with?
      MR. SIMPSON:  Over the years, originally at 
the Wall Street Journal we learned of his 
relationship with Ukrainian and Russian oligarchs.  
So it was generally continued in that vein.  He was 
subject of some litigation over his business 
dealings in New York.  There was a lawsuit filed by 
the opposition politician from Ukraine accusing him 
of involvement in corruption in Ukraine.  So as 
just a -- not for any particular client, but just 
because these matters are something I follow I had 
collected those documents.  I think there's 
probably some other litigation that I collected 
that was in a similar vein.  
      MS. QUINT:  And it was all documentary or did 
you have human sources for your Manafort research?
      MR. SIMPSON:  I don't think -- for the most 
part it was just what you call gathering string, 
just accumulating files on people or subjects that 
are of interest.  
      Ms. Sawyer: The committee, certain members of the 
committee, the Chairman and Ranking Member along 
with Senators Graham and Whitehouse had sent a 
request for documents and information on July 19.  
I understand your efforts to identify that 
information are ongoing and I know that in response 
to one of my questions about Mr. Page your attorney 
has already said that the request for information 
is pending and being reviewed.  I just wanted to 
ask you a couple of questions about some of the 
other individuals that we had identified in that 
letter and in particular in request No. 6?  
      MR. LEVY:  Do you have an exhibit or should I 
just get my copy out?  
      MS. SAWYER:  I'm happy to enter it as an 
exhibit or I can just read the names.  I don't 
think there's any reason we need to --
      MR. LEVY:  Just read the names to move it 
along, that's fine.  
      MS. SAWYER:  I don't think there's any 
reason -- there's nothing in this letter to inform 
your answer otherwise.  
      Ms. Sawyer: So with regard to Alpha Group, sometimes 
I've heard Alpha Group, sometimes I've heard Alpha 
Bank.  I don't know if they're two distinct 
entities.  Do you know anything about Alpha Bank or 
Alpha Group with regard to Russian interference in 
the 2016 election?
      Mr. Simpson: Alpha Group is not a corporate person, 
it's not an entity.  It's just a collective name.  
Alpha Bank is a bank.  I know a limited amount.  I 
know, you know, journalists were working on some 
issues related to this and they asked us about it, 
but the information didn't come from us.  
      Ms. Sawyer: So you were asked by journalists about it, 
but you're saying whatever information you had was 
not generated by Fusion GPS?
      Mr. Simpson: That's right.  I know they're a big player 
and they have long, deep ties to Vladimir Putin.  
One of the founders, Pyotr Aven, P-Y-O-T-R, second 
word Aven, A-V-E-N, was an associate of Vladimir 
Putin when he was in the mayor's office in Saint 
Petersburg around the time same that Bill Browder 
was doing business with the mayor's office.  
They're very powerful politically and economically 
in Russia and they have -- in the tens of billions 
are the assets of the founders and they have all 
sorts of interests.  They have epic disputes with 
western corporations, including BP.  So people in 
my business tend to just have a lot of 
institutional knowledge about them and, you know, I 
shared my institutional knowledge about them.  
      Ms. Sawyer: You mentioned other founders.  Are those 
other founders Mikhail Fridman and German Khan?
      Mr. Simpson: Yes.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Do you have any information there have 
been reports about potential communications between 
a server at Alpha Bank and potentially servers that 
belong to the Trump organization or Trump -- some 
entity associated with Donald Trump?  Do you have 
any information about those particular reports?
      Mr. Simpson: That's kind of an open-ended question.  I 
think what I said is we were asked about that and 
it wasn't -- that information wasn't generated by 
us and I'm happy to say it's beyond our competence 
to have generated, but in the course of being asked 
about it, you know, people gave us information.  I 
don't know what else to say.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And what information were you given?
      Mr. Simpson: A bunch of data.  I mean, we were shown 
like do you know what this would mean, does this 
mean, and it's beyond -- it's really -- it's 
certainly beyond my competence.  
      Ms. Sawyer: So the data that you were shown, you could 
not draw any conclusions from it?  
      Mr. Simpson: I did not draw any conclusions from the 
data.  
      Ms. Sawyer: Another individual that there's been a lot 
of press reporting on is Sergei Millian.  Other 
than what -- what, if anything, can you tell us 
about did you conduct any research into 
Mr. Millian?  And, if so, what conclusions did you 
reach with regard to Russian interference in the 
2016 election?
      Mr. Simpson: We learned from sources that he had 
connections to the Trump organization and we did an 
open source investigation of him.  We found a 
picture of him with Donald Trump and another real 
estate investor in Florida.  We've discovered 
that's not his real name or at least not the name 
he came to the United States with and that before 
he became a real estate broker he was a linguist 
and translator.  Speaking generally, people with 
advanced training in linguistics are oftentimes 
involved in intelligence matters, but I don't know 
whether he is or isn't.  Various reporters became 
interested in him because he was boasting about his 
connections to the Trump organization in the Trump 
campaign.  So we got lots of inquiries about who 
was he, was he a spy, you know, that sort of thing.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And did you make a determination whether 
or not he had actual ties to the Trump campaign?
      Mr. Simpson: Well, some of the -- yes.  I mean, he 
was -- I think he's Facebook friends with Michael 
Cohen.  I'm sorry.  It was some social media 
connection.  It was either Twitter friends or 
Facebook friends.  It was public information.  We 
took it from that that they did know each other.  I 
guess we gradually learned of Michael Cohen's role 
in the Trump campaign as opposed to in the Trump 
organization.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And what did you learn about Mr. Cohen's 
role in the Trump campaign? 
      Mr. Simpson: We learned that his job included dealing 
with inquiries about Russia and he seemed to get 
all of the serious inquiries, investigative 
inquiries about Russia.  He seemed to know a lot 
about that.  We learned that he was a very 
intimidating person who had a history of 
threatening reporters with libel suits.  We learned 
that he's married to -- his father-in-law is a 
Ukrainian emigre, that he had some Ukrainian 
clients and connections to the taxi industry in 
New York which is heavily populated with Russian 
emigres, and we learned that he was involved in 
some of Trump's projects where there was a lot of 
Russian buyers.  The only other thing I can think 
of is that he was also the person who dealt with 
allegations against Mr. Trump from the tabloids.  
      Ms. Sawyer: And with regard to Trump projects with 
Russian buyers, what specific projects had a number 
of Russian buyers?
      Mr. Simpson: I don't specifically remember.  Florida 
maybe.  I think it was Florida.  Sorry.  
      MS. SAWYER:  Just give us a minute.  
      I think that's really all of our questions.  
I don't know if there's follow-up that you all had.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Just very quickly.  I can do it 
from right here.  
      So I asked you -- or you were asked earlier 
about representations that you're not -- you don't 
see your firm as being Democrat linked and in my 
previous question I asserted that there had been 
public reports that you had done work, opposition 
research during the 2012 election aimed at 
Mr. Romney, but I didn't ask you to confirm that.  
Is that correct?  
      MR. LEVY:  Work for clients outside the scope 
of the interview is not within the scope of the 
interview.  
      MR. FOSTER:  It's relevant to his claim that 
he's not a Democrat linked firm.  
      MR. LEVY:  He's answered that question.  He's 
given you multiple answers to that question and 
significant information in support of his answer to 
that question, and that small fact which may or may 
not be pertinent is that he's going to decline to 
answer because it's outside the scope of this 
interview.
      MR. SIMPSON:  I decline to answer.  
      MR. FOSTER:  In some of the questioning in 
the last round there was some talk of your -- you 
didn't have a particular aim in your research, you 
were following the facts wherever they lead.  Is it 
fair to say -- is it a fair description to say that 
your job was opposition research aimed at 
Mr. Trump?  That's been widely reported and 
characterized that way.  Do you think that's a fair 
characterization of what your job was?  
      MR. LEVY:  He's been talking for nine and a 
half hours, a lot of which was describing his work.  
To simplify it in any particular way at this point 
I think is unfair to the witness.  
      MR. FOSTER:  You weren't hired to find 
positive information about Mr. Trump, were you?
      MR. SIMPSON:  To the contrary.  I think when 
you're doing research on any subject you're trying 
to figure out what the truth is.  So if Donald 
Trump's got a good business record and he's really 
worth billions of dollars, that's important 
information.  In fact, you shouldn't be feeding 
reporters stories about how Donald Trump is not 
worth billions of dollars if he's worth billions of 
dollars.  So, you know, I think the connotation of 
negativity, I get, you know, where you're coming 
from, but, in fact, you're just trying to figure 
out what's true.  
      It's like with the Prevezon case, we were 
trying to figure out who's telling the truth, is it 
our guys or is it Browder.  I do my job well and I 
get rehired when I give them the right information, 
when I give them accurate information.  So if 
Donald Trump turned out to be a great businessman, 
that's what I would have to tell people.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Nothing further from me.  
      MR. LEVY:  Before we go off the record, will 
we be entitled to a copy of the transcript?  
      MR. FOSTER:  You'll be able to review the 
transcript and request corrections, make an 
errata.  
      MR. LEVY:  Will it be kept confidential?  
We'd like to make a request that it be kept 
confidential given the sensitivity of the matters 
discussed today.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Your request is noted.  
      MR. LEVY:  Noted, but no decision on it?  
      MR. FOSTER:  No decision.  
      MR. LEVY:  And upon reviewing the transcript, 
when will we have that opportunity?  
      MR. FOSTER:  We can arrange that off the 
record.  
      MR. LEVY:  When we do we just reserve the 
right obviously to correct the record or supplement 
it.  
      MR. FOSTER:  That's why we'd allow you to 
review it.  
      MR. LEVY:  Thank you very much.  
      MR. DAVIS:  Nothing further.  We're going off 
the record at 7:04.  
                   (Whereupon the interview was 
                    concluded at 7:04 p.m.)
