Glenn Simpson
 SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
  U.S. SENATE
 WASHINGTON, D.C.
 INTERVIEW OF:  GLENN SIMPSON
 TUESDAY, AUGUST 22, 2017
  WASHINGTON, D.C.
  The interview in this matter was held at the 
Hart Senate Office Building, commencing at 9:34 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE:
Patrick Davis, Deputy Chief Investigative Counsel, 
   Chairman Grassley
Jason Foster, Chief Investigative Counsel, 
   Chairman Grassley
Samantha Brennan, Investigative Counsel, 
   Chairman Grassley
Daniel Parker, Investigative Assistant,
   Chairman Grassley
Joshua Flynn-Brown, Investigative Counsel,
   Chairman Grassley
Scott Graber, Legislative Assistant/Counsel,
   Senator Graham
Heather Sawyer, Chief Oversight Counsel,
   Senator Feinstein
Jennifer Duck, Staff Director, 
   Senator Feinstein
Molly Claflin, Counsel, 
   Senator Feinstein
Lara Quint, Chief Counsel, 
   Senator Whitehouse
APPEARANCES:  (Cont'd)
FOR THE WITNESS:
Joshua Levy, Cunningham Levy Muse
Robert Muse, Cunningham Levy Muse
Rachel Clattenburg, Cunningham Levy Muse
                      I N D E X
                     EXAMINATION
                                              PAGE
     By Mr. Davis                             11
     By Ms. Sawyer                            52
     By Mr. Davis                             95
     By Ms. Sawyer                            138
     By Mr. Davis                             180
     By Ms. Sawyer                            227
     By Mr. Davis                             260
     By Ms. Sawyer                            290
                      EXHIBITS
  EXHIBIT                                     PAGE
  Exhibit 1                                   11
     8/3/17 letter agreement                  
  Exhibit 2                                   30
     Privilege log                            
  Exhibit 3                                   138
     BuzzFeed memos                           
  Exhibit 4                                   196
     Filing in UK litigation                  
  Exhibit 5                                   205
     (Not described)                          
  Exhibit 6                                   261
     Meeting notes                            
      MR. DAVIS:  Good morning.  This is the 
transcribed interview of Glenn Simpson.  Chairman 
Grassley and Ranking Member Feinstein requested 
this interview as part of the Senate Judiciary 
Committee's investigation of Fusion GPS's 
activities related to the dossier compiled by 
Christopher Steele, the Prevezon case, and the 
Magnitsky Act.  
      Would the witness please state your name for 
the record.  
      MR. SIMPSON:  Glenn Simpson.  
      MR. DAVIS:  On behalf of the Chairman I want 
to thank Mr. Simpson for appearing here today.  My 
name is Patrick Davis.  I'm the Deputy Chief 
Investigative Counsel with the committee's majority 
staff.  
      I'll ask everyone else from the committee who 
is here to introduce themselves as well.  
      MR. FOSTER:  Jason Foster, I'm the Chief 
Investigative Counsel for Chairman Grassley.  
      MS. BRENNAN:  Samantha Brennan, Investigative 
Counsel, Chairman Grassley.
      MR. GRABER:  Scott Graber, Senator Graham.  
      MR. PARKER:  Daniel Parker, Investigative 
Assistant for Senator Grassley.
      MR. BROWN:  Joshua Flynn-Brown, Investigative 
Counsel for Senator Grassley.  
      MS. DUCK:  Jennifer Duck, Staff Director for 
Senator Feinstein.  
      MS. QUINT:  Lara Quint, Chief Counsel, 
Senator Whitehouse.  
      MS. SAWYER:  Heather Sawyer, Chief Oversight 
Counsel, Senator Feinstein.  
      MS. CLAFLIN:  Molly Claflin, Counsel, Senator 
Feinstein. 
      MR. DAVIS:  The Federal Rules of Civil 
Procedure do not apply to any of the committee's 
investigative activities, including transcribed 
interviews.  There are some guidelines we follow, 
and I'll go over those now.  
      Our questioning will proceed in rounds.  The 
majority staff will ask questions first for one 
hour, then the minority staff will have an 
opportunity to ask questions for an equal amount of 
time.  We will go back and forth until there are no 
more questions and the interview is over.  
      We typically take a short break at the end of 
each hour, but should you need a break at any other 
time, please just let us know.  And we can discuss 
taking a break for lunch whenever you're ready to 
do so.  
      We have an official reporter taking down 
everything we say to make a written record.  So we 
ask that you give verbal responses to all 
questions.  Do you understand?  
      MR. SIMPSON:  Yes.  
      MR. DAVIS:  So that the court reporter can 
take down a clear record, we'll do our best to 
limit the number of people directing questions at 
you during any given hour to those whose turn it 
is.  It's also important that we don't talk over 
one another or interrupt each other to the extent 
we can help it.  That goes for everybody present at 
today's interview.  
      We encourage witnesses who appear before the 
committee to freely consult with counsel if they 
should choose.  You are appearing here today with 
counsel.  Counsel, could you please state your name 
for the record.  
      MR. LEVY:  Josh levy.  
      MR. MUSE:  I'm Bob Muse and I represent Glenn 
Simpson.  
      MS. CLATTENBURG:  I'm Rachel Clattenburg.
      MR. DAVIS:  We want you to answer our 
questions in the most complete and truthful manner 
possible.  So we will take our time.  If you have 
any questions or if you don't understand any of our 
questions, please let us know.  If you honestly 
don't know the answer to a question or don't 
remember, it's best not to guess.  Just give us 
your best recollection.  
      It's okay to tell us if you learned 
information from somewhere else if you indicate how 
you came to know the information.  If there are 
things that you don't know or can't remember, we 
ask that you inform us to the best of your 
knowledge who might be able to provide a more 
complete answer to the question.  
      This interview is unclassified.  So if any 
question calls for information that you know to be 
classified, please state that for the record as 
well as the reason for the classification.  Then 
once you've clarified that to the extent possible, 
please respond with as much unclassified 
information as you can.  If we need to have a 
classified session later, that can be arranged.  
      It is this committee's practice to honor 
valid common law privilege claims as an 
accommodation to a witness or party when those 
claims are made in good faith and accompanied by 
sufficient explanation so that the committee can 
evaluate the claim.  When deciding whether to honor 
a privilege the committee weighs its need for the 
information against any legitimate basis for 
withholding it.  The committee typically does not 
honor contractual confidentiality agreements.  
      The committee and Mr. Simpson have agreed 
that this interview is occurring without prejudice 
to any future discussions with the committee and we 
reserve the right to request Mr. Simpson's 
participation in future interviews or to compel his 
testimony.  The committee and Mr. Simpson have also 
agreed that participation in this interview does 
not constitute a waiver of his ability to assert 
any privileges in response to future appearances 
before this committee.  
      Mr. Simpson, you should understand that 
although the interview is not under oath, by law 
you are required to answer questions from Congress 
truthfully.  Do you understand that?  
      MR. SIMPSON:  Yes.  
      MR. DAVIS:  Specifically 18 U.S.C. Section 
1001 makes it a crime to make any materially false, 
fictitious, or fraudulent statement or 
representation in the course of a congressional 
investigation.  That statute applies to your 
statements in this interview.  Do you understand 
that?  
      MR. SIMPSON:  Yes, I do.  
      MR. DAVIS:  Witnesses who knowingly provide 
false statements could be subject to criminal 
prosecution and imprisonment for up to five years.  
Do you understand this?  
      MR. SIMPSON:  Yes, I do.  
      MR. DAVIS:  Is there any reason you're unable 
to provide truthful answers to today's questions?
      MR. SIMPSON:  No.  
      MR. DAVIS:  Finally, we ask that you not 
speak about what we discuss in this interview with 
anyone else outside of who's here in the room today 
in order to preserve the integrity of our 
investigation.  We also ask that you not remove any 
exhibits or other committee documents from the 
interview.  
      Once again, the Chairman and Ranking Member 
withdrew their subpoena of you due to your 
willingness to provide information in this 
voluntary interview and document production.  
However, the extent to which the committee deems 
further compulsory process necessary will likely 
depend on your level of cooperation and candor.  
      Is there anything else that my colleagues 
from the minority would like to add?  
      MS. SAWYER:  Thank you.  We appreciate it.  
And we appreciate you being here as part of the 
investigation into the Russian interference into 
the 2016 election.  
      I did want to, with agreement of my 
colleagues, just enter into the record the letter 
agreement regarding the interview that was sent to 
your counsel on August 3, 2017.  I think my 
colleague has gone over a number of the parameters 
that we agreed to, but I think it would be helpful 
to have this in the record.  So we'll go ahead and 
mark it as Interview Exhibit No. 1 just for 
identification purposes.  
                   (Interview Exhibit 1 was 
                    marked for identification.)
      MS. SAWYER:  With that, again, thank you for 
being here.  
      MR. DAVIS:  The time is now 9:40 and we will 
get started with the first hour of questions.  
